pages/1.13/monitoring/index.md, before:

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle:  Monitoring, Logging, and Debugging
title: Monitoring, Logging, and Debugging
menuWeight: 110
excerpt: Learn how to monitor the health of your datacenter operations with DC/OS
---


Monitoring the health of all the pieces that make up DC/OS is vital to datacenter operators and for troubleshooting hard-to-diagnose bugs. You can monitor the health of your cluster components from the DC/OS web interface component health page. The component health page displays information from the system health API, which monitors the core DC/OS components.

DC/OS components are the [`systemd` units](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/) that make up the core of DC/OS. These components are monitored by our internal diagnostics utility (`dcos-diagnostics.service`). This utility scans all the DC/OS units, and then exposes an HTTP API on each host. For a complete description of the DC/OS components, see the [documentation](/1.13/overview/architecture/components/). The component health page provides the health status of all DC/OS system components that are running in systemd. You can drill down by health status, host IP address, or specific systemd unit.

## Getting Started

Launch the [DC/OS web interface](/1.13/gui/) and navigate to the **System -> Components** page. You can sort components by health.

![system health](/1.13/img/GUI-Components-List_View-1_12.png)

Figure 1. Components page showing health status

You can click on a DC/OS component to view the details, including role, node, and health.

![node detail](/1.13/img/GUI-Components-Compenent_Detail_View-1_12.png)

Figure 2. Individual component detail

You can debug further by clicking the node to view the component `journald` (log) output.

![log](/1.13/img/GUI-Components-Individual_Node_Detail_View-1_12.png)

Figure 3. `Journald` log output

## Health States

Possible health states are unhealthy and healthy. We infer this from codes 0 and 1.

*   **Healthy** All cluster nodes are healthy. The units are loaded and not in the "active" or "inactive" state.
*   **Unhealthy** One or more nodes have issues. The units are not loaded or are in the "active" or "inactive" state.

The system health API has four possible states: 0 - 3, OK; CRITICAL; WARNING; UNKNOWN. 

## System health HTTP API endpoint

The system health endpoint is exposed through the DC/OS diagnostics utility on the master nodes:

```bash
curl --unix-socket /run/dcos/dcos-diagnostics.sock http://localhost/system/health/v1
```

## Aggregation

Aggregation of the cluster health endpoints is accomplished by the same diagnostics application on the master nodes. You can explore this API further by making a few queries to any master in your cluster:

1.  SSH to your master node:

    ```bash
    dcos node ssh --master-proxy --leader
    ```
1.  Run this command to open a root session:

    ```bash
    sudo su -
    ```
1.  Run these commands to get cluster health:

    -  System health by unit:

       ```bash
       curl --unix-socket /run/dcos/dcos-diagnostics.sock http://localhost/system/health/v1/units
       ```
    -  System health by node:

       ```bash
       curl --unix-socket /run/dcos/dcos-diagnostics.sock http://localhost/system/health/v1/nodes
       ```
    -  System health report:

       ```bash
       curl --unix-socket /run/dcos/dcos-diagnostics.sock http://localhost/system/health/v1/report
       ```

The DC/OS user interface uses these aggregation endpoints to generate the data you explore in the system health console.

## Known Issues

### Misinterpreting system health by unit

You can sort system health by `systemd` unit. However, this search can bring up misleading information, as the service itself can be healthy but the node on which it runs is not. This manifests itself as a service showing "healthy" but nodes associated with that service as "unhealthy". 

### Missing cluster hosts

The system health API relies on Mesos-DNS to know about all the cluster hosts. It finds these hosts by combining a query from `mesos.master` A records as well as `leader.mesos:5050/slaves` to get the complete list of hosts in the cluster. This system has a known bug, in which an agent will not show up in the list returned from `leader.mesos:5050/slaves` if the Mesos agent service is not healthy. This means the system health API will not show this host. If you experience this behavior it is most likely that your Mesos agent service on the missing host is unhealthy.

## Troubleshooting

If you have any problems, you can check if the diagnostics service is running by SSHing to the Mesos leading master and checking the `systemd` status of the diagnostics component (`dcos-d3t.service`).

 [4]: https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/
 [5]: http://erlang.org/doc/man/epmd.html
 [6]: /1.13/security/
 [7]: /1.13/networking/load-balancing-vips/
 [8]: /1.13/overview/concepts/#private-agent-node
 [9]: /1.13/overview/concepts/#public-agent-node
 [10]: http://mesos.apache.org/documentation/latest/persistent-volume/

Commit message:

Document lack of guarantees with respect to the contents of diagnostics bundles
Fixes: https://jira.mesosphere.com/browse/DCOS_OSS-5146

pages/1.13/monitoring/index.md, after:

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle:  Monitoring, Logging, and Debugging
title: Monitoring, Logging, and Debugging
menuWeight: 110
excerpt: Learn how to monitor the health of your datacenter operations with DC/OS
---


Monitoring the health of all the pieces that make up DC/OS is vital to datacenter operators and for troubleshooting hard-to-diagnose bugs. You can monitor the health of your cluster components from the DC/OS web interface component health page. The component health page displays information from the system health API, which monitors the core DC/OS components.

DC/OS components are the [`systemd` units](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/) that make up the core of DC/OS. These components are monitored by our internal diagnostics utility (`dcos-diagnostics.service`). This utility scans all the DC/OS units, and then exposes an HTTP API on each host. For a complete description of the DC/OS components, see the [documentation](/1.13/overview/architecture/components/). The component health page provides the health status of all DC/OS system components that are running in systemd. You can drill down by health status, host IP address, or specific systemd unit.

## Getting Started

Launch the [DC/OS web interface](/1.13/gui/) and navigate to the **System -> Components** page. You can sort components by health.

![system health](/1.13/img/GUI-Components-List_View-1_12.png)

Figure 1. Components page showing health status

You can click on a DC/OS component to view the details, including role, node, and health.

![node detail](/1.13/img/GUI-Components-Compenent_Detail_View-1_12.png)

Figure 2. Individual component detail

You can debug further by clicking the node to view the component `journald` (log) output.

![log](/1.13/img/GUI-Components-Individual_Node_Detail_View-1_12.png)

Figure 3. `Journald` log output

## Health States

Possible health states are unhealthy and healthy. We infer this from codes 0 and 1.

*   **Healthy** All cluster nodes are healthy. The units are loaded and not in the "active" or "inactive" state.
*   **Unhealthy** One or more nodes have issues. The units are not loaded or are in the "active" or "inactive" state.

The system health API has four possible states: 0 - 3, OK; CRITICAL; WARNING; UNKNOWN. 

## System health HTTP API endpoint

The system health endpoint is exposed through the DC/OS diagnostics utility on the master nodes:

```bash
curl --unix-socket /run/dcos/dcos-diagnostics.sock http://localhost/system/health/v1
```

## Aggregation

Aggregation of the cluster health endpoints is accomplished by the same diagnostics application on the master nodes. You can explore this API further by making a few queries to any master in your cluster:

1.  SSH to your master node:

    ```bash
    dcos node ssh --master-proxy --leader
    ```
1.  Run this command to open a root session:

    ```bash
    sudo su -
    ```
1.  Run these commands to get cluster health:

    -  System health by unit:

       ```bash
       curl --unix-socket /run/dcos/dcos-diagnostics.sock http://localhost/system/health/v1/units
       ```
    -  System health by node:

       ```bash
       curl --unix-socket /run/dcos/dcos-diagnostics.sock http://localhost/system/health/v1/nodes
       ```
    -  System health report:

       ```bash
       curl --unix-socket /run/dcos/dcos-diagnostics.sock http://localhost/system/health/v1/report
       ```

The DC/OS user interface uses these aggregation endpoints to generate the data you explore in the system health console.

## Known Issues

### Misinterpreting system health by unit

You can sort system health by `systemd` unit. However, this search can bring up misleading information, as the service itself can be healthy but the node on which it runs is not. This manifests itself as a service showing "healthy" but nodes associated with that service as "unhealthy". 

### Missing cluster hosts

The system health API relies on Mesos-DNS to know about all the cluster hosts. It finds these hosts by combining a query from `mesos.master` A records as well as `leader.mesos:5050/slaves` to get the complete list of hosts in the cluster. This system has a known bug, in which an agent will not show up in the list returned from `leader.mesos:5050/slaves` if the Mesos agent service is not healthy. This means the system health API will not show this host. If you experience this behavior it is most likely that your Mesos agent service on the missing host is unhealthy.

### Diagnostics bundle contents

The contents of the generated bundle are not stable over time and any internal or third party bundle analysis tooling should be programmed very defensively in this regard.

## Troubleshooting

If you have any problems, you can check if the diagnostics service is running by SSHing to the Mesos leading master and checking the `systemd` status of the diagnostics component (`dcos-diagnostics.service`).


 [4]: https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/
 [5]: http://erlang.org/doc/man/epmd.html
 [6]: /1.13/security/
 [7]: /1.13/networking/load-balancing-vips/
 [8]: /1.13/overview/concepts/#private-agent-node
 [9]: /1.13/overview/concepts/#public-agent-node
 [10]: http://mesos.apache.org/documentation/latest/persistent-volume/
